specialist in the school figures took
the lead as expected however behind him
were Brian Orser
and Brian Boitano or sir of Canada
Boitano of the United States trying to
get the strongest position they could
going into the short program dick button
reports coming into the third and final
figure Brian Orser was in fourth place
and under a great deal of pressure kind
of though the third figure is called a
change loop
it's a figure with three circles with a
small loop at each end the important
thing is the shape of the loops in each
end they must not be fat and round but
kind of elongated and they must face
each other and beyond access the skaters
don't have a diagram like this to follow
they must create their own on clean ice
Brian Boitano was in third place going
into this figure he was behind michael
fisher of west germany and alexander
padilla this was the way brian orser
skated the back outside change loop
now you can see how small this figure
was
to do this figure right the skater must
have very steady nerves a steel like
concentration the print is very small
and even the slightest glitches show up
clearly and then the judges moved in to
look over the print there are nine
judges and even Brian Orser couldn't
resist looking to see how he had done
the judges not only looked for the print
on the ice they also had to consider the
way he skated the figure it he had good
style where the edges smooth and
consistent Brian skated a good figure it
moved him into third place overall and
then it was Brian Boitano turn earlier
he talked with us about the intensity of
compulsory figure competition
competition days when you do it in
compulsory event you're exhausted after
them because all you do for six hours of
that compulsory days think of what you
have to do what you have to remember
and they're so it's so fine to that just
the slightest mistake can take you off
so you have to make sure that you know
what you're doing
you could hear a pin drop in the arena
when he skated this figure the entire
competition took an incredible seven
hours there was no way the skaters could
maintain their tension through that time
and in order to relax believe it or not
Brian Boitano was actually able to take
a nap
Boitano has improved tremendously in the
compulsory figure portion of competition
I think he was very happy with this
figure and it left him in second place
overall the hard work had paid off the
final results then were Padilla Boitano
and hoarser in the first three places
Christopher Bowman was in eighth for
wall-e in 12th place